# 1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques

## Terms

### Phising

* Attempting to gain sensitive information by means of deception, typically through email.

> Example: User receives email seemingly sent by an accredited business but is actually sent by a separate entity attempting to deceive the user into voluntarily disclosing sensitive information.

### Smishing

* Attempting to gain sensitive information by means of deception through SMS.

> Example: User receives text with a link that appears legitimate but it leads to a compromised website.

### Vishing

* Attempting to gain sensitive information by means of deception through voice calls

> Example: User receives a call and is told that the malicious party is trying to contact them about their cars extended warranty.

### Spam

* Unsolicited messages through email or other electronic means

> Example: User receives unsolicited emails and can see that others in the email chain have similar email addresses to themselves.

### SPIM - Spam over Instant Messaging

* Unsolicited messages through SMS

> Example: User receives a text from a random number that the user does not recognize and the message is attempting to gain a response from the user.

### Spear Phising

* A phishing attempt directed at one specific individual

> Example: A malicious actor has performed reconnaissance on an individual and has compiled credible information that could be used on the targeted individual. Key knowledge such as knowing the names of family members, co-workers, daily routine and work schedule could all be documented in order to successfully gain information from the targeted individual.

### Dumpster Diving

* Gaining information by going through discarded material

> Example: A malicious actor knows that the targeted business has garbage and recycling removed on a scheduled day of the week. Prior to the refuse being removed, the malicious actor can gain access to the disposal site and sift through the material for compromising information.

### Shoulder Surfing

* Physically or electronically viewing an individuals personal device screen with the intent to gain information

> Example: An individual is working on a sensitive project on their laptop while resting inside of an airport lounge. A malicious actor is able to position themselves in a way to be in full view of the individuals screen and is able to compromise the sensitive information without the individual ever knowing.

### Pharming

* Redirecting a legitimate website to a compromised website

> Example: A malicious actor is able to compromise the DNS of a reputable website and forces users to be redirected to a compromised version of the website even if the user enters the correct website URL.

### Tailgating

* An individual utilized social engineering in order to gain access to an otherwise restricted or secured area

> Example: A malicious actor targets individuals outside of a business that requires key card access to gain entry. The malicious actor could attempt to prey on the helpfulness of legitimate employees and attempt to gain access to the building by claiming that they left their access card in another location and need to return to their office.

### Eliciting Information

* Extracting information from an individual either directly or indirectly

> Example: If an individual wanted to know how secured an area is they could attempt to make contact with a targeted individual and give knowingly false information in the hope that the targeted individual would respond with correct, factual information.

### Whaling

* A phising attack that targets an individual hwo has access to financial resources within the targeted organization or business

> Example: A malicious actor specifically targets the Chief Financial Officer of a corporation with the goal of gaining access to corporate bank account information.

### Prepending

* A method of URL squatting where a malicious website prepends characters to the URL

> The URL <https://www.mmicrosoft.com> would be a malicious URL attempting to disguise itself as <https://www.microsoft.com>

### Identity Fraud

* Using compromised personal information to accomplish a malicious goal

> Example: A user has their identity stolen and it is used to open multiple new lines of credit.

### Invoice Scams

* A type of social engineering where a fabricated invoice is sent in the hopes that payment is received

> Example: A malicious actor performs reconnaissance on a business and identifies the individual who is responsible for paying invoices. That individual is then sent a fake invoice where the account payable would be under the control of the malicious actor.

### Credential Harvesting

* An attempt to extract sensitive credential information from a victims computer through malicious scripting

> Example: A user downloads and opens an attached file from an email that looks legitimate but as soon as the attachment is opened, a script is run to copy all user credentials and sends them to an endpoint controlled by a malicious actor.

### Reconnaissance

* Observations of a desired target in order to gain information 

> Example: Penetration testing usually begins with reconnaissance and the end goal of gaining more information about the systems or individual that is the target of the attack. This can be passive or active reconnaissance

### Hoax

* A situation that seems real on the surface but in reality is false

> Example: This can take form in a variety of different ways such as an email, phone call, pop-up or SMS

### Impersonation

* A type of social engineering where an individual attempts to deceive based on impersonating another person

> Example: A malicious actor may attempt to impersonate an official figure in order to portray themselves as legitimate.

### Watering Hole Attack

* An attack against a third party where the targets of the attack are individuals at a connected business

> Example: In order to gain access against a locked down business, a malicious actor may target a less secure organization that is visited or utilized by the target company. This would allow the less secure organization to help the malicious actor gain access to the more secure organization by proxy.

### Typosquatting

* Using common misspellings of legitimate businesses in order to draw users into compromised websites

> Example: A user may not see the difference between URLs that contain similar characters such as microsoft.com and nicrosoft.com

### Pretexting

* A type of social engineering where an attempt is made to have the victim divulge information

> Example: A user is sent an email where they are notified that they should be prepared to receive a call from a bank that they use.

### Influence Campaigns

* An attempt to sway the opinion of individuals on political or social issue

> Example: Bot accounts can be used to spread desired messaging across a vast collection of public messaging forums or social media applications.

### Principles

* Authority
* Intimidation
* Consensus
* Scarcity
* Familiarity
* Trust
* Urgency