# 1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack

## Terms

---

## Malware

### Ransomware

* Malware that attempts to extort money from the user by holding the users data hostage behind an encryption key

> Example: A user downloads what they thing is a legitimate email attachment but the attachment executes a malicious script that encrypts all of the users data behind a secret key. A message would appear to the user explaining that they will get the secret key to unlock their data only after paying the attacker.

### Trojans

* Legitimate software that has been modified to include malicious code

> Example: A user downloads software from a third party hosting site rather than the original authors website. The software works as expected but the user has also unknowingly allowed a trojan to compromise their system.

### Worms

* Self-contained program that replicates itself and sends copies to other computers

> Example: A user downloads an infected email attachment that contains a worm. The worm can then modify or delete files or replicate itself to force the infected system to run out of resources

### Potentially Unwanted Programs (PUP)

* Application that is installed onto a users system through unwanted means

> Example: A trojan could install a PUP such as an unwanted toolbar onto your web browser or redirecting to unwanted websites during internet searches.

### Fileless Virus

* This is a virus that does not need to be saved in order to infect a users system

> Example: One type of fileless virus could execute all of its code within the computers RAM. This would cause the user to become infected without receiving an antivirus notification or noticing any new malicious files being added to the system

### Command and Control (server)

* Provides overall command over an established botnet

> Example: A malicious actor can utilize a C&C center to synchronize tasks to be carried out by all machines within the botnet

### Bots

* Individual machines that compose a larger botnet

> Example: A users system is taken over by malware that incorporates the system into a bot net. This system can now be remotely accessed by the malware owner.

### Crypto Malware

* Malware that uses cryptography to encrypt a victims data

> Example: A users data is rendered unaccessible due to being encrypted. The data can only be decrypted when given the correct secret key.

### Logic Bombs

* Malicious program that only initializes after certain criteria are met

> Example: A user downloads a piece of software that works as intended. What the user does not know is that in a set amount of time, the logic bomb with detonate and unwanted behavior could compromise the users system

### Spyware

* Software that allows the covert collection of a users data

> Example: A users downloads a compromised file and is infected with spyware. The spyware could be set to log the users keystrokes while taking screengrabs and sending the compromised information to an address that the spyware author controls.

### Keyloggers

* Software the captures all keystrokes (physical or digital keyboard)

> Example: A keylogger can be installed onto a publicly accessible computer and a malicious actor can gain compromising information from all subsequent users of the infected machine.

### Remote Access Trojan (RAT)

* Malicious code that allows virtual control over an infect machine

> Example: A malicious actor can remotely access files, add or remove software or can have complete control over an infected system.

### Rootkit

* Malicious code that modifies the root (kernel) of an operating system

> Example: A user identifies malware on their system but is unable to successfully remove the corrupted files due to the malware also containing a rootkit. This means that the malware would be reinstalled onto the effected machine as it is now part of the base operating system kernel.

### Backdoor

* Intentional vulnerability coded into software to allow the author access into any system that has the software installed

> Example: Early versions of Linux had an intentional backdoor coded into the kernel to allow remote access.

---

## Password Attacks

### Spraying

* A limited attempt to access a system using common passwords

> Example: A malicious actor can attempt to use 1-3 commonly used passwords per account without setting off warnings of multiple failed login attempts. If the common passwords work, the attacker would continue their attack. Otherwise, the attacker would move on to their next target account to continue the spraying attack

### Dictionary

* A more robust attempt to gain access to a system or data using common dictionary words

> Example: An attacker may use a text file containing common dictionary words that can be used against a system or data that is password protected. This is used when there is no limit or penalty for guessing the wrong password

### Brute force

* An attack that uses every letter, number and special character combination to gain a matching password

> Example: An attacker may use a brute force attack to gain entry into an encrypted or password protected file. This can be resource and time intensive especially if the password has been encrypted

### Rainbow Table

* A list of identified hashes that can be cross referenced

> Example: An attacker conducts a successful brute force attack against an encrypted file and exports all encountered hashes to a file that is can be used to quickly look up those hashes and their corresponding passwords.

### Plain text / unencrypted

* Passwords or credentials that are stored without being hashed

> Example: A database that stores user information as plaintext can be easily compromised by an attacker

---

## Physical Attacks

### Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable

* A seemingly normal USB cable that contains chip components that allow the installation of compromising software when plugged into a users system

> Example: One prominent example of a malicious USB cable would be the O.MG Elite cable that can compromise a users iPhone when used.

### Malicious Flash Drive

* A USB drive that is loaded with malicious software that will compromise an unsuspecting users system if plugged in

> Example: A malicious actor can drop an infected USB near a business and hope that an employee picks the drive up and plugs it into their workstation computer. This was the genesis behind the Stuxnet attack.

### Card Cloning

* Creating a cloned card using the information from a legitimate card

> Example: A malicious actor can used card cloning in addition to skimming to reproduce a passable credit card that can be used for nefarious purposes.

### Skimming

* The process of copying the information from a credit card or other smart card

> Example: A card can be skimmed at the point of sale if the attacker has placed a physical means of copying card details electronically.


---

## Adversarial Artificial Intelligence (AI)

### Tainted training data for machine learning

* Purposefully introducing incorrect data to disrupt machine learning

> Example: An attacker can use tainted training data to "teach" an AI to correlate a certain behavior with a specified input

### Security of Machine Learning Algorithms

* Compromising that rules that are emplaced on a machine learning algorithm or service

> Example: An attacker may find a flaw within a machine learning softwares programming and can exploit that flaw to extract compromising information about the services users.

---

### Supply-chain attacks
